Part 1: New documentation (#553)
FormidableLabs/urql: docs/basics/mutating-data.md

---
title: Mutations
order: 2
---

## Mutate your data

> Now that we know how to query our data we'll also need to know

Reviewer: Might be worth keeping docs isolated from other sections given how pages are separate. Straight to the point might be more useful.

> # Mutations
>Mutations can be triggered in Urql in one of two ways
>
> - directly via the client using `executeMutation`
> - indirectly using an adapter - (e.g. `useQuery`)
> 
> ## Client (executeMutation)
> ...
>
> ## React/Preact (useMutation)
>
> ...
>
> ## JQuery ($mutation)
>
> ...
>

how to mutate it, for this the `useMutation` hook and the `Mutation`
component are exported.

Let's set up a mutation allowing us to change the name of our todo.

```jsx
const Todo = ({ id, title }) => {
  const [updateTodoResult, updateTodo] = useMutation(`
    mutation ($id: ID!, $title: String!) {
      updateTodo (id: $id, title: $title) {
        id
      }
    }
  `);
}
```

Similar to the `useQuery` output, `useMutation` returns a tuple. The first item in the tuple being our `result`
containing: `fetching`, `error`, and `data`. At this point in time, no mutation has been performed.
To mutate the data we first have to invoke the second item in the tuple - the function here named `updateTodo`.

### Using the result

When calling this function we have two ways of getting the response from the server,

> we can get it from `updateTodoResult` or we chain a `.then` on our `updateTodo` call.

Reviewer: Minor wording change!

```suggestion
we can get it from `updateTodoResult` or we can await the promise returned from our mutation trigger function.
```

Also, is it fair to assume most will be using async/await?

Reviewer 2: Agreed, let’s not make any assumptions and in general just state that it returns a result in the expected, identical shape 👍

It’s a minor detail but whenever possible it’s good to state all options and details of an API of ours whenever possible (we can add cross-references / links to API / other pages later) but stop whenever an explanation dives outside of urql / GraphQL
